Goa holds Bengal to goalless draw

Reported by: M.R. Praveen Chandran

PLACE: PANAJI

DATE AND TIME: MARCH 16, 2017 23:50 IST

Services posts a solitary-goal win over Chandigarh in Santosh Trophy

West Bengal missed a spate of chances and was held to a goalless draw by Goa in a group-A match of the 71st Santosh Trophy football championship at the GMC stadium, Bambolim, on Thursday.

The draw ensured that Bengal stayed atop the table with seven points from three matches while Goa has four points from two matches.

At Vasco in the same group, defending champion Services laboured to a 1-0 win over Chandigarh.

Bengal forced the pace from the start, and the trio of Manvir Singh, Basanta Singh and Shaikhom Ronald Singh harried the Goan defence.

Manvir missed what was probably the easiest of several chances, in the 10th minute. After Agnelo Gomes fumbled with a collection, Basanta passed the ball to an unmarked Manvir, who shot it out. The Goa attack was predictable, with moves emanating mostly from the left flank and it failed to test the Bengal defence. There wasn’t any marked change in the pattern of play in the second half.

Bengal’s Debashish Pradashan induced a good save from Gomes in the 60th minute off a counter attack.

In the 70th minute Ronald broke free on the left flank and hoodwinked two defenders to squeeze in a good centre, but Manvir couldn’t connect with his head.

Goa had a chance to sew up the match in the 88th minute when Liston Coalco found himself free in the Bengal box as a high ball was relayed to him. But, with only the keeper to beat, the striker failed to control the ball and lost the opportunity.

Services got its stuttering campaign on track with a solitary-goal win over Chandigarh. Francis Zountlunga scored the winner in the ninth minute.

On Friday, Kerala takes on Punjab while Maharashtra plays Railways in Group B.

The results: West Bengal 0 drew with Goa 0.

Services 1 (Francis Zountlunga 9) bt Chandigarh 0.