Pep keeps the faith

Reported by: AGRNCIES

DATE AND TIME: MARCH 17, 2017 23:46 IST

The European exit has upset the Man City faithful, but the boss isn’t panicking ahead of Sunday’s crunch game against Liverpool.

Faced with Act Three of what he described as a season-defining week, Pep Guardiola remains unshakeable in his convictions despite a chastening European visit.

The route to the FA Cup semifinals was negotiated without bother, but Manchester City paid for a sloppy first half against Monaco in the Champions League. Sunday’s Premier League meeting with Liverpool comes, therefore, at a difficult time.

Amidst the mounting criticism – plenty of which is disproportionate – Guardiola admitted to failing; not tactically, but in terms of communication.

“My philosophy has always been the same, that of attacking. In the first half, I was not able to convince my players to play in a certain way, to motivate them, to show more personality. I knew how to do it after the break,” said Guardiola after the Champions League exit.

“But the important thing is always to stay true to our DNA, to our style of play. We only did it in the second half.”

This DNA will be tested by Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool in a high-stakes game. The sides are a point apart at third and fourth on the table, City ahead with a game in hand.

Sports3jpg  
Guardiola and Klopp have met on nine previous occasions, most recently on New Year’s Day at Anfield when Liverpool won 1-0, and the German has the edge, 5-4.

Their meetings in the Bundesliga, where the rivalry began, were often described as ‘football of the future’. Given the hype that accompanies coverage these days – and the view that nothing sells like negativity – it’s no wonder some critics are referring to Sunday’s game as ‘football for their [the managers’] future’. The subtext is that with City and Liverpool off the title-race pace, change is needed.

Guardiola, however, knows it comes with the territory. “I give you my permission to analyse what is my success this season, I’m not the guy to say it was good or bad,” he said. “But I know what my standard is in terms of the past. My period in Munich was judged as a disaster because we were not able to win the Champions League.

“But when I was at Munich, we won three leagues in a row, we won two cups, we arrived all the time in the semifinals, but it was a disaster. So I have to handle that.”

And he is not about to compromise on how he believes football must be played. “I want to see a team from the first minute looking to win the game,” he said. “After that, at this level everyone can beat you, but I don't like my team to speculate.”

Guardiola does not agree with criticism that his side is defensively naive. “When you attack good, you defend good,” he said. “We defend 40m away [from goal] because I always believe that when the ball’s far from our goal, we’re safe. The reason we’re creating more goals and conceding fewer is the way we play.”

The key, Guardiola said, to winning consistently was clinical finishing. “If we had taken 50 per cent of the chances we created, we would be better than now. That has been our problem all season. Football is about boxes. I was managing at two clubs where in the boxes, they were top. You see Real Madrid, you see Barcelona, you see Juventus, you see their teams in the boxes and they do not make any mistakes. And to achieve titles, that is what you have to improve.”