Big pay hikes for Pujara, Jadeja and Vijay

Place:

Reported by:Internet Desk

DATE AND TIME: MARCH 22, 2017 18:37 IST

BCCI announces annual player contracts

Cheteshwar Pujara, Ravindra Jadeja and M Vijay have been upgraded to the Grade A category of the annual men's player contracts announced by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) today. The annual retainership in Grade A has been increased to Rs 2 crore, exactly double what was offered to the players in the same category when the board last announced its annual contracts, in November 2015.

MS Dhoni, R Ashwin, Ajinkya Rahane and Virat Kohli have been retained in the top category. The retainer in Grade B has also been increased, from Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore. Notable inclusions in this list are opening batsman KL Rahul, medium-pacer Jasprit Bumrah and batsman Yuvraj Singh.

The Grade C category has a few new faces, including promising Delhi wicketkeeper batsman Rishabh Pant, and Mumbai fast bowler Shardul Thakur. Allrounder Hardik Pandya and offspinner Jayant Yadav have also made it to the third category. Shikhar Dhawan and Ambati Rayudu have been demoted from Grade B to C. 

The pay hike comes just days after both Pujara and Jadeja made strides in the ICC player rankings. Pujara's 202 in the third Test against Australia at Ranchi pushed him up to No.2 among Test batsmen, while Jadeja's nine-wicket haul and half-century in the same Test helped him claim the top spot among Test bowlers, pushing his spin partner R Ashwin to No. 2.

Vijay has had a good home Test season with the bat, scoring 752 runs in 11 matches with three centuries and three fifties. The upgrade is particularly significant for Pujara and Vijay in particular since they do not feature regularly in one-day internationals or Twentry20s. Pujara went unsold in the 2017 Indian Premier League player auction.

The BCCI has also increased the match fee for each of the three formats. Players will now earn Rs 15 lakh per Test, Rs 6 lakhs per one-day international and Rs 3 lakhs per Twenty20 international.

Grade A (annual retainer - Rs 2 crore): Virat Kohli, MS Dhoni, R Ashwin, Ajinkya Rahane, Cheteshwar Pujara, Ravindra Jadeja, M Vijay

Grade B (annual retainer - Rs 1 crore): Rohit Sharma, KL Rahul, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Mohammed Shami, Ishant Sharma, Umesh Yadav, Wriddhiman Saha, Jasprit Bumrah, Yuvraj Singh

Grade C (annual retainer - Rs 50 lakh): Shikhar Dhawan, Ambati Rayudu, Amit Mishra, Manish Pandey, Axar Patel, Karun Nair, Hardik Pandya, Ashish Nehra, Kedar Jadhav, Yuzvendra Chahal, Parthiv Patel, Jayant Yadav, Mandeep Singh, Dhawal Kulkarni, Shardul Thakur, Rishabh Pant