‘I think the best way to beat stress is to run, sweat a bit’ 

Reported by: Rakesh Rao

PLACE: NEW DELHI

DATE AND TIME:  February 24, 2017 22:57 IST

 Running teaches you patience and gives you strength, says Haile Gebrselassie

It is said that children walk to school and run back home. In the case of Haile Gebrselassie, it was a 10-km run to school and back. Every day.

The diminutive Ethiopian distance runner would go on to have a glittering career stretching two decades during the course of which he became a two-time Olympic 10,000m gold medallist, won four world titles, four world indoor titles and had 27 world-record times.

Having retired in 2015, Gebrselassie, 43, remains an inspiration for runners, from amateurs to marathoners everywhere.

“I don’t see myself as a successful athlete,” he says. “From the beginning, I always wanted to do something new. Most of it that I wanted to achieve, I achieved.

“If you say, these achievements make a successful athlete, then, yes… I have done what I had planned.”

Speaking to The Hindu on at the launch of the New Delhi Marathon as brand ambassador for adidas, Gebrselassie, who now heads the Ethiopian Athletics Federation, reflects on his passion for setting records.

“I knew people came to see me run. It was not enough for them to see me win. They came from far off places, covering many kilometres only to watch me running. That’s why I always thought of doing something special for them,” he says.

On what fascinated him about running, the legendary runner says: “Once you start, the joy of running remains with you. It teaches you a lot. You learn to be patient, gives you strength. When the body is moving, the mind is doing other things. During my two-hour training, my mind would finish most of my office-work. It was almost like doing yoga to keep your mind free of stress.

“Even today, I think the best way to beat stress is to run a bit, sweat a bit and enjoy it.”

For all his achievements, is it difficult to pick the three best moments?

Gebrselassie says: “My 10,000m gold at the Sydney Olympics (becoming the third man, after Emil Zatopek and Lasse Viren, to defend the Olympic 10,000m title) was the best. Second, would the triumph at the 2008 Berlin Marathon (with a world record time of 2:03:59) and thirdly, the world record run (of 12:44.39) in the 5,000m in Zurich in 1995 when I broke the previous record by nearly 11 seconds (10.91 to be precise)!”