IOB silences ASC, enters final 

Reported by: Rayan Rozario

PLACE: COIMBATORE

DATE AND TIME: March 26, 2017 01:44 IST

 Southern Railway women to fight it out with Chhattisgarh

Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) registered an 84-64 win over Army Service Corps (ASC), Karnataka, in the men’s semifinal of the 31st Federation Cup basketball championship here on Saturday.

Only the other day G.R.L. Prasad, the ASC coach, had said that it would be a bit easy for his men if they were to meet IOB in the semifinal. But the bankmen proved a tough nut to crack.

The opening minutes of the first quarter was far more open with both teams trying to create a strong first impression.

But midway through, IOB called the shots. Some impressive layups by S. Prasanna Venkatesh (16 points) and the ever-reliable Rikin Pethani (29 pts) put the team in command.

ASC fought hard but failed to control the boards at crucial junctures.

In the second also, IOB maintained a sizeable lead. In the fourth quarter, Rikin and Prasanna went flat out to take the team to a 73-56 lead.

And ASC had no answers to IOB’s tactical plan and final rush.

In the women’s section, favourite Southern Railway defeated Tamil Nadu 73-67 for a place in the final.

The host had in its roster a set of talented individuals but lacked the height and the sting to trouble its opponent in the first session.

R. Rajapriyadarshini, D. Anitha Priya and Renjini Peter were the pillars of strength for Railways during that period. The experienced Renjini, in fact, is returning to the side after a nine-month injury layoff. And, she played her role to great perfection.

Railways, with virtually no bench strength to back its efforts, implemented its strategies with caution and care.

The scoring rate was not to its expectations but with great understanding and excellent court coverage the team managed to stay afloat for most part.

In the final, Southern Railway will take on Chhattisgarh, which scored a thrilling 99-98 win over a fighting West Bengal.

The results (semifinals):

Men: IOB 84 (Rikin Pethani 29, Prasanna Venkatesh 16) bt Army Service Corps (Karnataka) 64 (Jeethandar Singh 19, Issac T. Thomas 15); ONGC (Uttarakhand) 72 bt Indian Air Force 49.

Women: Southern Rly 73 (D. Anitha Priya 25, R. Raja Priyadarshini 14) bt Tamil Nadu 67 (R. Varshanandhini 22, M. Keerthi 17); Chhattisgarh 99 bt West Bengal 98.