CoA has full control and supervision: SC

Reported by: G. Viswanath 

PLACE: MUMBAI

DATE AND TIME:  March 26, 2017 01:35 IST

 BCCI office-bearers cannot work independently

Can BCCI office-bearers C.K. Khanna, Amitabh Chaudhary and Anirudh Chaudhry work independently of the Committee of Administrators (CoA)?

In its order of January 2, 2017 that removed Anurag Thakur as BCCI president and Ajay Shirke as secretary, the Supreme Court said:

“Upon the CoA nominated by this Court assuming charge, the existing office-bearers shall function subject to the supervision and control of the CoA.”

And, after naming the members of the CoA, the Supreme Court by its order of January 30 said: “Mr. Vinod Rai shall be the Chairman of the CoA. The CEO of BCCI shall report to the CoA and the administrators shall supervise the management of BCCI.”

The office-bearers who have not been affected by the disqualification norm at the BCCI level — Amitabh Chaudhary and Anirudh Chaudhry (treasurer) — have submitted their undertaking, the contents of which have not been revealed so far.

The Supreme Court’s interpretation, on Friday (March 24), of the nine-year tenure ceiling set by the Lodha Committee may have led Messrs. Khanna, Amitabh Chaudhary and Anirudh Chaudhry understand that they have the right to discharge their functions.

But, according to the SC “only under the supervision and control of the CoA.”

All the aforementioned office-bearers, would go into the three-year cooling off period only when notice for the next election is served.

That’s the million-dollar question now because the CoA is still trying to find ways to persuade the full members to accept the Justice Lodha Committee recommendations.

Only the 31 members have the right to change the MoU and Rules and Regulations of the BCCI. And the CoA is not even in the know of who are eligible to be called for a Special General Meeting. The news on the grapevine is that eventually the entire reforms report may be referred to a Constitution Bench.